PF-1.6: Creating README for Policy based VRF selection for IPV4/V6 (#4084)
openconfig/featureprofiles: feature/policy_forwarding/policy_vrf_selection/otg_tests/policy_based_traffic_steering_default_to_nondefault/README.md

Author: How to do that? It's a vbit complicated task for me.

> # PF-1.6: Policy forwarding of GUE tunnel traffic to default and non-default network-instance

Reviewer: Going through the test I don't believe you're trying to test GUE encap traffic forwarding from default and non-default vrf.
If you're then the entire test needs to be updated, if not then this title needs to be updated

## Summary

> This test ensures NOS is able to host multiple VRFs, perform GUE tunnel traffic in the default VRF and also allows for gradual traffic migration from Default to Non-Default VRF using VRF selection policy.

Author: The idea is to send the GUE encaped traffic from the ATE2 to ATE1. The DUT is forwarding the traffic based on the policy. Let me know if you have any suggestions here.

## Test environment setup

### Topology
Create the following connections:
```mermaid
graph LR; 
subgraph ATE1 [ATE1]
    A1[Port1]
end
subgraph DUT1 [DUT1]
    B1[Port1]
    B2[Port2-default VRF]
    B3[Port3-nondefault VRF]
end 
subgraph ATE2 [ATE2]
    C1[Port1]
    C2[Port2]
end
B1 <--> B2;
B1 <--> B3;
A1 <-- IBGP(ASN100) & ISIS --> B1;
B2 <-- EBGP(ASN100:ASN200) --> C1;
B3 <-- EBGP(ASN100:ASN200)  --> C2;
```

### Configuration generation of DUT and ATE

> #### DUT Configuration

Reviewer: Can you call out port to vrf mapping in DUT configuration section to be explicit?

> * Configure ISIS[Level2] and IBGP[ASN100] as described in topology between ATE:Port1 and DUT:Port1

Reviewer: Do we need ISIS ? Are you trying to configure IBGP over ATE loopback address , I think you can get away with IBGP session on ATE:Port1 interface address.

* Configure EBGP[ASN200] between DUT1:Port2 and ATE2:Port1
* Configure EBGP[ASN200] between DUT1:Port3 and ATE2:Port2
* Configure route leaking from the default VRF and non-default VRF and vice versa.

> * Configure a policy based traffic steering from default to Non Default VRF, this policy should be able to steer the traffic from Default VRF to non default VRF and vice versa based on the destination IP/IPV6 address.

Reviewer: replace IP/IPV6 with IPv4/IPv6

> * Configure a policy based traffic steering from default to Non Default VRF, this policy should be able to steer the traffic from Default VRF to non default VRF and vice versa based on the destination IP/IPV6 address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure a policy based traffic steering from default to Non Default VRF, this policy should be able to steer the traffic from Default VRF to non default VRF and vice versa based on the destination IPv4/IPv6 address.
```

* DUT has the following VRF selection policy initially

>     * Statement1: traffic matching IPv4Prefix1/24, Punt to default vrf
>     * Statement2: traffic matching IPv4Prefix2/24, Punt to default vrf
>     * Statement3: traffic matching IPv6Prefix3/64, Punt to default vrf
>     * Statement4: traffic matching IPv6Prefix4/64, Punt to default vrf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Statement1: traffic matching IPv4Prefix1/24, forward through default vrf
    * Statement2: traffic matching IPv4Prefix2/24, forward through to default vrf
    * Statement3: traffic matching IPv6Prefix3/64, forward through to default vrf
    * Statement4: traffic matching IPv6Prefix4/64, forward through to default vrf
```

#### ATE Configuration
* Configure ISIS[Level2] & IBGP[ASN100] on ATE1:Port1
* Configure EBGP[ASN200] on ATE2:Port1 & ATE2:Port2

### Configure ATE Route Advertisements & Traffic Flows as below:
#### ATE Route Advertisements:

	ATE2:Port1 advertises following prefixes to DUT1:Port2 over EBGP
    - IPv4Prefix1/24
    - IPv4Prefix2/24
    - IPv6Prefix3/64
    - IPv6Prefix4/64

	ATE2:Port2 advertieses following prefixes to DUT1:Port3 over EBGP
    - IPv4Prefix1/24
    - IPv4Prefix2/24
    - IPv6Prefix3/64
    - IPv6Prefix4/64

#### ATE traffic Flows:

	From ATE1:Port1 to ATE2 destination prefixes
    - IPv4Prefix1/24 at a rate of 100 packets/sec
    - IPv4Prefix2/24 at a rate of 100 packets/sec
    - IPv6Prefix3/64 at a rate of 100 packets/sec 
    - IPv6Prefix4/64 at a rate of 100 packets/sec

## Procedure
### PF-1.6.1: [Baseline] Default VRF for all flows with regular traffic profile

#### In this case DUT1:Port1 sends the regular flows to ATE2:Port1.
  * ATE2:Port2 receives following IPv4 and IPv6 flows:
    * IPv4Prefix1/24
    * IPv4Prefix2/24
    * IPv6Prefix3/64
    * IPv6Prefix4/64

    * Expectations:
      * All traffic must be successful and there should be 0 packet loss.

>       * Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester port and also should be equal to the sum of packets seen in default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester port 
      * DUT1:Port2 port statistics packet counter should match packets sent by ATE1:PORT1 .
```

### PF-1.6.2: Traffic from ATE1 to ATE2 Prefix 1 migrated to Non-Default VRF using the VRF selection policy
  * ATE1:Port1 sends following IPv4 and IPv6 flows:
    * IPv4Prefix1/24
    * IPv4Prefix2/24
    * IPv6Prefix3/64
    * IPv6Prefix4/64
   
  * VRF selection policy on DUT1:Port2 changes as follows: 
    * Statement1: traffic matching IPv4Prefix1/24, Punt to non-default vrf

>     * Statement2: traffic matching IPv4Prefix2/24, Punt to default vrf
>     * Statement3: traffic matching IPv6Prefix3/64, Punt to default vrf
>     * Statement4: traffic matching IPv6Prefix4/64, Punt to default vrf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Statement2: traffic matching IPv4Prefix2/24, forward through default vrf
    * Statement3: traffic matching IPv6Prefix3/64, forward through default vrf
    * Statement4: traffic matching IPv6Prefix4/64, forward through to default vrf
```

  * Expectations:

>     * To validate the prefixes advertised by ATE2:Port1 and ATE2:Port2 are received on ATE1:Port1. 

Reviewer: Do we need this validation to be done?  IMO, the traffic flow success will verify this

Author: Added it to explicitly say and explain what we want to do. But if that seems unreasonably extra, I can get rid of it!

    * Traffic for Prefix 1 received from ATE1:Port1 once punted to non-defailt VRF by the VRF selection policy, must be received by ATE2:Port2
    * Traffic for rest of the prefixes sent by ATE1:Port1 must be routed to ATE2:Port1 via the DEFAULT VRF in the DUT.

>     * Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester ports and also should be equal to the sum of packets seen in default & non default VRF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester ports 
    * The flow packets sent for IPv4Prefix1/24 by ATE1:Port1 should be equal packets to DUT1:Port2 out-pkts counter.
    *  the sum of packets seen in default & non default VRF.
```

    * There should be 0 packet loss. <br><br><br>

### PF-1.6.3: Traffic from ATE1 to ATE2 Prefix 1 migrated to Non-Default VRF using the VRF selection policy
  * ATE1:Port1 sends following IPv4 and IPv6 flows:
    * IPv4Prefix1/24
    * IPv4Prefix2/24
    * IPv6Prefix3/64
    * IPv6Prefix4/64
   
  * VRF selection policy on DUT1:Port2 changes as follows: 
    * Statement1: traffic matching IPv4Prefix1/24, Punt to non-default vrf
    * Statement2: traffic matching IPv4Prefix2/24, Punt to non-default vrf

>     * Statement3: traffic matching IPv6Prefix3/64, Punt to default vrf
>     * Statement4: traffic matching IPv6Prefix4/64, Punt to default vrf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Statement3: traffic matching IPv6Prefix3/64, forward through default vrf
    * Statement4: traffic matching IPv6Prefix4/64, forward through to default vrf
```

  * Expectations:

>     * To validate the prefixes advertised by ATE2:Port1 and ATE2:Port2 are received on ATE1:Port1 . 

Reviewer: Do we need this validation step to be done? IMO, the traffic flow success will verify this

Author: same as above comment

>     * Traffic for Prefix 1 & 2 received from ATE1:Port1 once punted to non-defailt VRF by the VRF selection policy, must be received by ATE2:Port2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Traffic for IPv4Prefix1/24 & IPv4Prefix2/24 received from ATE1:Port1 once punted to non-defailt VRF by the VRF selection policy, must be received by ATE2:Port2
```

    * Traffic for rest of the prefixes sent by ATE1:Port1 must be routed to ATE2:Port1 via the DEFAULT VRF in the DUT.

>     * Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester ports and also should be equal to the sum of packets seen in default & non default VRF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester ports.
    * The sum of flow packets sent for flow prefixes IPv4Prefix1/24 and IPv4Prefix2/24 by ATE1:Port3 should be equal packets to DUT1:Port3 out-pkts counter.
    *  The sum of packets sent for flow prefixes IPv6Prefix3/24 and IPv6Prefix4/24 should be equal packets to DUT1:Port2 out-pkts counter.
```

    * There should be 0 packet loss. <br><br><br>

### PF-1.6.4: Traffic from ATE1 to ATE2 Prefix 1 migrated to Non-Default VRF using the VRF selection policy
  * ATE1:Port1 sends following IPv4 and IPv6 flows:
    * IPv4Prefix1/24
    * IPv4Prefix2/24
    * IPv6Prefix3/64
    * IPv6Prefix4/64
   
  * VRF selection policy on DUT1:Port2 changes as follows: 
    * Statement1: traffic matching IPv4Prefix1/24, Punt to non-default vrf
    * Statement2: traffic matching IPv4Prefix2/24, Punt to non-default vrf
    * Statement3: traffic matching IPv6Prefix3/64, Punt to non-default vrf

>     * Statement4: traffic matching IPv6Prefix4/64, Punt to default vrf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Statement4: traffic matching IPv6Prefix4/64, forward through default vrf
```

  * Expectations:

>     * To validate the prefixes advertised by ATE1:Port1 are received on ATE2:Port1 and ATE2:Port2. 

Author: same as above comment

    * Traffic for Prefix 1,2 & 3 received from ATE1:Port1 once punted to non-defailt VRF by the VRF selection policy, must be received by ATE2:Port2
    * Traffic for rest of the prefixes sent by ATE1:Port1 must be routed to ATE2:Port1 via the DEFAULT VRF in the DUT.

>     * Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester ports and also should be equal to the sum of packets seen in default & non default VRF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester ports.
     * The sum of flow packets sent for flow prefixes IPv4Prefix1/24, IPv4Prefix2/24 and  IPv6Prefix3/24 by ATE1:Port3 should be equal packets to DUT1:Port3 out-pkts counter.
    *  The packets sent for flow prefixes IPv6Prefix4/24 should be equal packets to DUT1:Port2 out-pkts counter.
```

    * Statement3: traffic matching IPv6Prefix3/64, Punt to non-default vrf
    * Statement4: traffic matching IPv6Prefix4/64, Punt to non-default vrf

  * Expectations:
    * To validate the prefixes advertised by ATE1:Port1 are received on ATE2:Port1 and ATE2:Port2. 
    * Traffic for all Prefixes received from ATE1:Port1 once punted to non-defailt VRF by the VRF selection policy, must be received by ATE2:Port2
    * No traffic should be routed to ATE2:Port1 via the DEFAULT VRF in the DUT in this case.
    * Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester ports and also should be equal to the sum of packets seen in default & non default VRF.
    * There should be 0 packet loss. <br><br><br>

## OpenConfig Path and RPC Coverage

```yaml
rpcs:
  gnmi:
    gNMI.Set:
    /network-instances/network-instance/name
    /network-instances/network-instance/config
    /network-instances/network-instance/config/name
    /network-instances/network-instance/config/type
    /network-instances/network-instance/config/description
    /network-instances/network-instance/config/router-id
    /network-instances/network-instance/config/route-distinguisher

>     /network-instances/network-instance/policy-forwarding/interfaces/interface/configa

Reviewer: fix this path

Reviewer 2: Format of this yaml stanza should be like the template:

https://github.com/openconfig/featureprofiles/blob/main/doc/test-requirements-template.md#openconfig-path-and-rpc-coverage

>     /network-instances/network-instance/policy-forwarding/interfaces/interface/configa

Reviewer: I don't see a OC path here for route-leaking, can you please add that ?

Author: You mean to add this?

```
/network-instances/network-instance/policy-forwarding/interfaces/interface/state/apply-forwarding-policy
--

[/network-instances/network-instance/policy-forwarding/interfaces/interface/state/apply-forwarding-policy](https://openconfig.net/projects/models/schemadocs/yangdoc/openconfig-network-instance.html#network-instances-network-instance-policy-forwarding-interfaces-interface-state-apply-forwarding-policy)```

Author: @dplore Can you help figuring out the OC path for route-leaking as mentioned by Nupur?

Reviewer 2: OC has route redistribution.  This doc has lots of details on how to write it in OC:
https://www.openconfig.net/docs/models/network_instance_redist/

> # PF-1.6: Policy based VRF selection for IPV4/IPV6

Author: I thought we decided on getting rid of that step in the last review. If I get that wrong, I will add it back

> # PF-1.6: Policy based VRF selection for IPV4/IPV6

Reviewer: No I suggested changes to that sections but didn't suggested to get rid of it. Sorry for the confusion.

> # PF-1.6: Policy based VRF selection for IPV4/IPV6

Author: Done.

## Summary
This test ensures NOS is able to host multiple VRFs, and verify that VRF selection policy is working as intended.

## Test environment setup

### Topology
Create the following connections:
```mermaid
graph LR; 
subgraph ATE1 [ATE1]
    A1[Port1]
end

> subgraph DUT1 [DUT1]

Reviewer: You need three ports on DUT. PORT1 <> ATE1:Port1, Port2 <> ATE2:Port1 and Port3 <> ATE2: Port2

Author: ACK.

    B1[Port1-default VRF]
    B2[Port2-nondefault VRF]
end 
subgraph ATE2 [ATE2]
    C1[Port1]
    C2[Port2]
end
A1 <-- IBGP(ASN100) --> B1;
B1 <-- EBGP(ASN100:ASN200) --> C1;
B2 <-- EBGP(ASN100:ASN200)  --> C2;
```
* Traffic Flow direction is from ATE1 --> ATE2

### Configuration generation of DUT and ATE

#### DUT Configuration
* Configure IBGP[ASN100] as described in topology between ATE1:Port1 and DUT1:Port1
* Configure EBGP[ASN200] between DUT1:Port1 and ATE2:Port1
* Configure EBGP[ASN200] between DUT1:Port2 and ATE2:Port2
* Port1 of DUT1 which maps to Default VRF instance, is connected to Port1 of ATE2

> * Port2 of DUT1 which maps to the non-default VRF instance, is connected to Port2 of ATE2

Reviewer: Update this section with DUT:Port3 details

* Configure route leaking from the default VRF and non-default VRF and vice versa.
* Configure a policy based traffic steering from default to Non Default VRF, this policy should be able to steer the traffic from Default VRF to non default VRF and vice versa based on the destination IPv4/IPv6 address.
* DUT has the following VRF selection policy initially
    * Statement1: traffic matching IPv4Prefix1/24, forwards the traffic through default vrf
    * Statement2: traffic matching IPv4Prefix2/24, forwards the traffic through default vrf
    * Statement3: traffic matching IPv6Prefix3/64, forwards the traffic through default vrf
    * Statement4: traffic matching IPv6Prefix4/64, forwards the traffic through default vrf
    * DUT must also leak all the routes from the Default VRF to the non-default VRF

#### ATE Configuration
* Configure IBGP[ASN100] on ATE1:Port1
* Configure EBGP[ASN200] on ATE2:Port1 & ATE2:Port2

### Configure ATE Route Advertisements & Traffic Flows as below:
#### ATE Route Advertisements:

>   	ATE2:Port1 advertises following prefixes to DUT1:Port1 over EBGP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  	ATE2:Port1 advertises following prefixes to DUT1:Port2 over EBGP
```

#### ATE Configuration
* Configure IBGP[ASN100] on ATE1:Port1
* Configure EBGP[ASN200] on ATE2:Port1 & ATE2:Port2

### Configure ATE Route Advertisements & Traffic Flows as below:
#### ATE Route Advertisements:

  	ATE2:Port1 advertises following prefixes to DUT1:Port2 over EBGP
    - IPv4Prefix1/24
    - IPv4Prefix2/24
    - IPv6Prefix3/64
    - IPv6Prefix4/64

  	ATE2:Port2 advertieses following prefixes to DUT1:Port3 over EBGP
    - IPv4Prefix1/24
    - IPv4Prefix2/24
    - IPv6Prefix3/64
    - IPv6Prefix4/64

#### ATE traffic Flows:

	From ATE1:Port1 to ATE2 destination prefixes
    - IPv4Prefix1/24 at a rate of 100 packets/sec
    - IPv4Prefix2/24 at a rate of 100 packets/sec
    - IPv6Prefix3/64 at a rate of 100 packets/sec 
    - IPv6Prefix4/64 at a rate of 100 packets/sec

## Procedure
### PF-1.6.1: [Baseline] Default VRF for all flows with regular traffic profile

#### In this case DUT1:Port1 sends the regular traffic flows to ATE2:Port1.
  * ATE2:Port1 receives following IPv4 and IPv6 flows:
    * IPv4Prefix1/24
    * IPv4Prefix2/24
    * IPv6Prefix3/64
    * IPv6Prefix4/64
   
  * Validation
	* All traffic must be successful and there should be 0 packet loss.

> 	* Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester port

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	      * Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester port 
	      * DUT1:Port2 port out-pkts counter should match packets sent by ATE1:PORT1.
```

	* Traffic for Prefix 1 received from ATE1:Port1 once punted to non-defailt VRF by the VRF selection policy, must be received by ATE2:Port2
	* Traffic for rest of the prefixes sent by ATE1:Port1 must be routed to ATE2:Port1 via the DEFAULT VRF in the DUT.
	* Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester ports and also should be equal to the sum of packets seen in default & non default VRF.
	* There should be 0 packet loss.

### PF-1.6.3: Traffic from ATE1 to ATE2, 2 Prefixes migrated to Non-Default VRF using the VRF selection policy
  * ATE1:Port1 sends following IPv4 and IPv6 flows:
    * IPv4Prefix1/24
    * IPv4Prefix2/24
    * IPv6Prefix3/64
    * IPv6Prefix4/64
   
  * VRF selection policy on DUT1:Port2 changes as follows: 
    * Statement1: traffic matching IPv4Prefix1/24, Punt to non-default vrf by the policy
    * Statement2: traffic matching IPv4Prefix2/24, Punt to non-default vrf by the policy
    * Statement3: traffic matching IPv6Prefix3/64, is forwarded through the default vrf
    * Statement4: traffic matching IPv6Prefix4/64, is forwarded through the default vrf

 * Validation

> 	* Validate the prefixes advertised by ATE2:Port1 and ATE2:Port2 are received on ATE1:Port1 .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	* Traffic for IPv4Prefix1/24 & IPv4Prefix2/24 received from ATE1:Port1 once punted to non-defailt VRF by the VRF selection policy, must be received by ATE2:Port2
```

	* Traffic for Prefix 1 & 2 received from ATE1:Port1 once punted to non-defailt VRF by the VRF selection policy, must be received by ATE2:Port2
	* Traffic for rest of the prefixes sent by ATE1:Port1 must be routed to ATE2:Port1 via the DEFAULT VRF in the DUT.

> 	* Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester ports and also should be equal to the sum of packets seen in default & non default VRF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	* Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester ports.
	* The sum of flow packets sent for flow prefixes IPv4Prefix1/24 and IPv4Prefix2/24 by ATE1:Port3 should be equal packets to DUT1:Port3 out-pkts counter.
	*  The sum of packets sent for flow prefixes IPv6Prefix3/24 and IPv6Prefix4/24 should be equal packets to DUT1:Port2 out-pkts counter.
```

# PF-1.6: Policy based VRF selection for IPV4/IPV6

## Summary
This test ensures NOS is able to host multiple VRFs, and verify that VRF selection policy is working as intended.

## Test environment setup

### Topology
Create the following connections:
```mermaid
graph LR; 
subgraph ATE1 [ATE1]
    A1[Port1]
end
subgraph DUT1 [DUT1]
    B3[Port1-default VRF]
    B1[Port2-default VRF]
    B2[Port3-nondefault VRF]
end 
subgraph ATE2 [ATE2]
    C1[Port1]
    C2[Port2]
end
A1 <-- IBGP(ASN100) --> B3;
B1 <-- EBGP(ASN100:ASN200) --> C1;
B2 <-- EBGP(ASN100:ASN200)  --> C2;
B3 --> B1;
```
* Traffic Flow direction is from ATE1 --> ATE2

### Configuration generation of DUT and ATE

#### DUT Configuration
* Configure IBGP[ASN100] as described in topology between ATE1:Port1 and DUT1:Port1
* Configure EBGP[ASN200] between DUT1:Port2 and ATE2:Port1
* Configure EBGP[ASN200] between DUT1:Port3 and ATE2:Port2
* Port1 of DUT1 is connected to Port1 of ATE1
* Port2 of DUT1 which maps to Default VRF instance, is connected to Port1 of ATE2
* Port3 of DUT1 which maps to the non-default VRF instance, is connected to Port2 of ATE2

> * Configure route leaking from the default VRF and non-default VRF and vice versa.

Author: Done, We do not want to do route leaking, but want to setup both VRFs such that they have similar routes at first.

  * ATE1:Port1 sends following IPv4 and IPv6 flows:
    * IPv4Prefix1/24
    * IPv4Prefix2/24
    * IPv6Prefix3/64
    * IPv6Prefix4/64
   
  * VRF selection policy on DUT1:Port2 changes as follows: 
    * Statement1: traffic matching IPv4Prefix1/24, Punt to non-default vrf by the policy
    * Statement2: traffic matching IPv4Prefix2/24, Punt to non-default vrf by the policy
    * Statement3: traffic matching IPv6Prefix3/64, Punt to non-default vrf by the policy
    * Statement4: traffic matching IPv6Prefix4/64, Punt to non-default vrf by the policy

  * Validation   
	* To validate the prefixes advertised by ATE1:Port1 are received on ATE2:Port1 and ATE2:Port2.
	* Traffic for all Prefixes received from ATE1:Port1 once punted to non-defailt VRF by the VRF selection policy, must be received by ATE2:Port2
	* No traffic should be routed to ATE2:Port1 via the DEFAULT VRF in the DUT in this case.
	* Need to verify the packets sent by sender tester is equal to the packets on receiving tester ports.
	* DUT1:Port3 port out-pkts counter should match packets sent by ATE1:PORT1.
	* There should be 0 packet loss.

> ## Canonical OpenConfig

Author: Done, update the canonical
